# Context Free

##  Who is this programming language for?

It appears ContextFree is a programming language for artists who have some
understanding of computers. Specifically, this program seems ideal for artists
who want to do recursive "math art" like fractals. This appears to be an easy
alternative to writing things like pure PostScript.



## What is easy to do in this language? Why is it easy?

Things like fractals are easy to do in ContextFree. This is because the its
function-like declarations of rules and paths enable easy reuse and scaling
of shapes in a programmatic way. Although all art generated in this program can
be generated by other computer means, this program makes it much more
accessible to both programmers and artists alike by abstracting out complex
details related to rendering.



## What is hard to do in this language? Why is it hard?

This language appears to be designed to programatically do vector based art,
similar to SVG files and images generated by software like Adobe Flash and
Illustrator. While vector art works great for scalable image, (such as posters,
banners, wallpapers, clipart, fonts, etc.), by defining all shapes and lines in
terms of math, the user loses control over the individual pixels. Although
images can be converted to a typical format like a PNG or JPG, this is a result
of sampling and not individual pixel manipulation as is often done in programs
like Photoshop. Thus, since everything is very mathematical, it would be
challenging to design something with a sketch-like or hand-drawn appearance.
This is because this function is beyond the scope of a DSL built for
programmatically generated vector based art.



## How did you learn how to program in this language?

I used a combination of the sample _welcome.cfdg_ file that appeared when the
ContextFree opened, the documentation available on the internet, and trial and
error. The documentation was initially challenging to use since we use an older
version of the software with slightly different syntax, especially for
defining paths. Although the old documentation still exists on the web
[here](http://www.contextfreeart.org/mediawiki/index.php/Version_2_Syntax#Paths)
it wasn't linked to directly in ContextFree's help menu.

Specifically, I used trial and error to discover things such as the difference
between _LINETO_ and _LINEREL_, the importance of parameter ordering (e.g.
SQUARE [r 45 s 1 2] is very different than SQUARE [s 1 2 r 45]), and that Y+ is
up, unlike monitor coordinates where Y+ is often down.




## What is the underlying _computational model_ for this programming language? 
_We don't yet have a great definition of the term "computational model". 
For now, try to come up with the clearest, most concise explanation of what 
happens when a ContextFree program runs._

ContextFree interprets a provided script and renders an appropriate image. The
rendered image can then be modified and re-rendered via the script or exported
into typical image file format.



## What do you think is interesting about the ContextFree program you wrote?

I think the flexibility and power of the rule and path definition system was
especially interesting. Specifically, since the shape I drew was symmetrical, I
only needed to define half of the outline and then use the _flip 90_ parameter
to create a perfect other half. Additionally, since there were two eyes, I only
needed to define one shape and then display two of them. Furthermore, the
ability to scale and resize paths, saved me from having to redesign the eyes
after I realized my initial shape was too small.


